[DX-1326] docs: document ably init and use it across getting-started pages (#3380)
ably/docs: src/pages/docs/platform/tools/cli.mdx

## Installation

Get started in a single command:

<Code>
```shell
npx -p @ably/cli ably init
```
</Code>

> `ably init` installs the Ably CLI globally, authenticates you, and installs the Ably [Agent Skills](https://github.com/ably/agent-skills) into any AI coding tools it detects on your machine, such as Claude Code, Cursor, VS Code, and Windsurf.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[`ably init`](/docs/cli/init) installs the Ably CLI globally, authenticates you, and installs the Ably [Agent Skills](https://github.com/ably/agent-skills) into any AI coding tools it detects on your machine, such as Claude Code, Cursor, VS Code, and Windsurf.
```

Author: [docs: link ably init to its CLI reference page](https://github.com/ably/docs/pull/3380/commits/31b835077b8743ed29f0bc4ab5aa4adb5e97b4d0)

> If you'd rather install the CLI yourself before running `init`, the Ably CLI is published to NPM:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To explicitly run [`ably init`](/docs/cli/init), manually install the CLI first:
```
Previous statement ```If you'd rather install the CLI yourself before running `init`, the Ably CLI is published to NPM:``` doesn't make sense : (
Similarly, can you rephrase other stuff under `Installation` and `Usage` section for easier understanding ?

Author: I've rephrased some bits [here](https://github.com/ably/docs/pull/3380/commits/ea6ffd119f97c1900899ab67848faa20f0abe917) 

but npx installation is deliberately first

<Code>
```shell
npm install -g @ably/cli
ably init

> ```

Reviewer: Both commands have formatting issue at https://ably-docs-docs-cli-1-co-o62ip9.herokuapp.com/docs/platform/tools/cli#installation.
Maybe `npm install -g @ably/cli` and `ably init` should be under different ```shell

Author: <img width="1028" height="319" alt="Screenshot 2026-05-14 at 15 11 58" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/039a3ed4-5d07-4c6d-9de6-4ddc3bfb82db" />

what's the formatting issue?

Reviewer: The `shell icon` looks in the middle of both `commands`. 
Based on my understanding, it's difficult to know, if both commands needs to be run separately : (
You can check and accordingly update 👍

Author: I think the fact they're on separate lines is a strong enough pattern in the codebase that they're separate commands. It'd look stranger if there were instead two code blocks back to back imo

</Code>

<Aside data-type='note'>

> You can skip `ably init` and authenticate with [environment variables](/docs/cli/env) instead, which is useful in scripts and CI/CD pipelines.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Alternatively, you can skip interactive [`ably init`](/docs/cli/init) and use [environment variables](/docs/cli/env) to authenticate directly in scripts and CI/CD pipelines.
```

Author: [docs: clarify CLI env vars alternative to init and login](https://github.com/ably/docs/pull/3380/commits/b89617d8aab94870e1c3bc25b55218af07138f91)
